---
layout: "vmware"
sidebar_current: "vmware-eula"
page_title: "End User License Agreement (EULA) - VMware Plugin"
description: |-
  This page documents the End User License Agreement (EULA) for the Vagrant
  VMware plugin.
---

# EULA

<div class="legal-text">
1\. Grant of License and Restrictions. Subject to the terms hereof, payment of all fees, and any applicable user/use limitations, Company grants Licensee a nonsublicensable, nonexclusive, right to use the current version of the licensed product in object code form only.  ("Product") only in accordance with Company's applicable user documentation and only for up to the number of developers ("Developers") specified on the order form and/or download page, provided each Developer may use the Product on two (2) machines. Except for one copy solely for back-up purposes, Licensee may possess only the number of copies of any Product as has been expressly authorized by Company); Company retains ownership of all copies and Licensee will maintain the copyright notice and any other notices that appear on the Product on any copies and any media. Licensee will not (and will not allow any third party to) (i) reverse engineer or attempt to discover any source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of any Product (except to the extent that applicable law prohibits reverse engineering restrictions), (ii) provide, lease, lend, disclose, use for timesharing or service bureau purposes, or otherwise use or allow others to use for the benefit of any third party, any Product (except as expressly and specifically authorized by Company),  (iii) possess or  use any Product, or allow the transfer, transmission, export, or re-export of any Product or portion thereof in violation of any export control laws or regulations administered by the U.S. Commerce Department, U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or any other government agency, (iv) disclose to any third party any benchmarking or comparative study involving any Product or (v) modify any Product.  Prior to disposing of any media or apparatus containing any part of the Product, Licensee shall completely destroy any Product contained therein.  All the limitations and restrictions on Products in this Agreement also apply to documentation and screens. Further, a license granted on an evaluation basis may be used for purposes of evaluation for a full license only, and not for any productive use.  LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PRODUCT MAY INCLUDE FEATURES TO PREVENT USE AFTER THE APPLICABLE LICENSE PERIOD AND/OR USE INCONSISTENT HEREWITH.  Licensee acknowledges that Product may be distributed alongside or contain or use certain third party software ("Third Party Software").  THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE IS (IN ADDITION TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT), SUBJECT TO AND GOVERNED BY (AND LICENSEE AGREES TO, AND WILL INDEMNIFY COMPANY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH) THE RESPECTIVE LICENSES FOR THE THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE AVAILABLE AT https://www.vagrantup.com.

2\. Fees and Payment.  Within thirty days after first receipt of the Product or the date(s) otherwise expressly agreed by Company, Licensee shall pay Company all applicable fees for any authorized copies or uses of Product (if any) and/or such other fees as have been expressly agreed to by Company ("License Fees").  In addition, without limiting Company's remedies, if Licensee makes or uses copies, or has users/uses, that are not authorized hereunder, it will so report to Company and will pay any applicable additional license equal to Company's then current standard fees for the license of such extra copies and users/uses (from time to time upon request, Company will be entitled to audit or have audited all systems and records relevant to assure compliance with the foregoing; any audit showing noncompliance will be at Licensee's expense).  Licensee shall pay Company any upgrade fees as required by the Company in connection with major version releases.  Any payments more than thirty (30) days overdue will bear a late payment fee of 1.5% per month, or, if lower, the maximum rate allowed by law. In addition, Licensee will pay all taxes, shipping, duties, withholdings, backup withholding and the like; when Company has the legal obligation to pay or collect such taxes, the appropriate amount shall paid by Licensee directly to Company.

3\. Termination. All licenses will terminate thirty days (ten in the case of non-payment and immediately in the case of a breach of Section 1) after notice of any breach of this Agreement by Licensee that remains uncured at the end of such notice period. A license will also terminate upon the expiration of any applicable license period specified for the applicable Product on the Company price list or such other license period as have been expressly agreed to by Company, provided that in any case a free evaluation license will have a license period of not more than ninety (90) days. Upon any termination, Licensee shall immediately cease all use of all affected Products and return or destroy all copies of all affected Products and all portions thereof and so certify to Company. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the terms hereof shall survive any termination. Termination is not an exclusive remedy and all other remedies will be available whether or not termination occurs.

4\. Embedded Reporting / Compliance Routine; Data Access and Use.  Licensee acknowledges that Products may contain automated reporting routines that will automatically identify and analyze certain aspects of use and performance of Products and/or the systems on which they are installed, as well as the operator and operating environment (including problems and issues that arise in connection therewith), and provide reporting to Company.  Provided it does not identify Licensee, Company will be free to use for development, diagnostic and corrective purposes any data and information it so collects relating to diagnosis, problems, systems, performance, use or functionality, and may allow others to do so.

5\. Indemnification.  Except in the case of a free evaluation license, Company shall hold Licensee harmless from liability to third parties resulting from infringement by a Product of any United States patent issued sixty (60) days or more before delivery of such Product or any copyright or misappropriation of any trade secret, provided Company is promptly notified of any and all threats, claims and proceedings related thereto and given reasonable assistance and the opportunity to assume sole control over defense and settlement; Company will not be responsible for any settlement it does not approve. The foregoing obligations do not apply with respect to a Product or portions or components thereof (i) not created by Company (e.g., Third Party Software), (ii) made in whole or in part in accordance to Licensee specifications, (iii) that are modified after delivery by Company, (iv) combined with other products, processes or materials where the alleged infringement relates to such combination, (v) where Licensee continues allegedly infringing activity after being notified thereof or after being informed of modifications that would have avoided the alleged infringement, or (vi) where Licensee's use of such Product is not strictly in accordance herewith. Licensee will indemnify Company from all damages, costs, settlements, attorneys' fees and expenses related to (I) any claim of infringement or misappropriation excluded from Company's indemnity obligation by the preceding sentence, or (II) any other claim in connection with the Product or the use or distribution thereof.

6\. Warranty Disclaimer.  ALL PRODUCTS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND FROM ANYONE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT. FURTHER, COMPANY DOES NOT WARRANT RESULTS OF USE OR THAT THE PRODUCTS ARE BUG FREE OR THAT THE PRODUCT'S USE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

7\. Limitation of Liability. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING ELSE HEREIN OR OTHERWISE, AND EXCEPT FOR BODILY INJURY, NEITHER COMPANY NOR ANY LICENSOR SHALL BE LIABLE OR OBLIGATED WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF OR UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY (I) FOR ANY AMOUNTS IN EXCESS IN THE AGGREGATE OF THE FEES PAID TO IT HERE¬UNDER WITH RESPECT TO THE APPLICABLE PRODUCT DURING THE SIX MONTH PERIOD PRIOR TO THE CAUSE OF ACTION OR (II) FOR ANY COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS, TECHNOLOGY, SERVICES OR RIGHTS; (III) FOR ANY INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; (IV) FOR INTERRUPTION OF USE OR LOSS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA; OR (V) FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND ITS REASONABLE CONTROL.  THE PRODUCT IS NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED, OR INTENDED FOR USE IN HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS REQUIRING FAIL-SAFE PERFORMANCE WHERE THE FAILURE OF THE PRODUCT COULD LEAD DIRECTLY TO DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SIGNIFICANT PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE ("HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES").  USE OF THE PRODUCT IN HIGH RISK ACTIVITIES IS NOT AUTHORIZED.  THE PARTIES AGREE THAT THIS SECTION 7 REPRESENTS A REASONABLE ALLOCATION OF RISK AND THAT LICENSOR WOULD NOT PROCEED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH ALLOCATION. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION AND EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8\. Miscellaneous.  Neither this arrangement nor the licenses granted hereunder are assignable or transferable by Licensee (and any attempt to do so shall be void). Company may assign this Agreement and/or any of its rights and obligations hereunder without consent.  The provisions hereof are for the benefit of the parties only and not for any other person or entity.  Any notice, report, approval, authorization, agreement or consent required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing; notices shall be sent to the address the applicable party has or may provide by written notice or, if there is no such address, the most recent address the party giving notice can locate using reasonable efforts. No failure or delay in exercising any right hereunder will operate as a waiver thereof, nor will any partial exercise of any right or power hereunder preclude further exercise. If any provision shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision shall be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this arrangement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable. This agreement shall be deemed to have been made in, and shall be construed pursuant to the laws of the State of California and the United States without regard to conflicts of laws provisions thereof, and without regard to the United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods or the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act. This is the complete and exclusive statement of the mutual understanding of the parties and supersedes and cancels all previous written and oral agreements and communications relating to the subject matter hereof and any waivers or amendments shall be effective only if made in writing; however, any pre-printed or standard terms of any purchase order, confirmation, or similar form, even if signed by the parties after the effectiveness hereof, shall have no force or effect.  The substantially prevailing party in any action to enforce this agreement will be entitled to recover its attorney's fees and costs in connection with such action.  As defined in FAR section 2.101, DFAR section 252.227-7014(a)(1) and DFAR section 252.227-7014(a)(5) or otherwise, all Products and accompanying documentation provided by Company are  "commercial items," "commercial computer software" and/or "commercial computer software documentation."  Consistent with DFAR section 227.7202 and FAR section 12.212, any use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, disclosure or distribution thereof by or for the U.S. Government shall be governed solely by these terms and shall be prohibited except to the extent expressly permitted by these terms.
</div>

Download as [PDF](https://s3.amazonaws.com/hc-public/sales/EULA_standalone.pdf).
