---
layout: "vmware"
sidebar_current: "vmware-tos"
page_title: "Terms of Service - VMware Plugin"
description: |-
  This page documents the Terms of Service (TOS) for the Vagrant VMware plugin.
---

# TERMS OF USE

<div class="legal-text">
PLEASE READ THESE TERMS OF USE ("AGREEMENT") CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE SERVICES OFFERED BY HASHICORP, INC. ("COMPANY"). BY VISITING THE WEBSITES OR USING THE SERVICES IN ANY MANNER, YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY AND A PARTY TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT TO THE EXCLUSION OF ALL OTHER TERMS.  IF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT ARE CONSIDERED AN OFFER, ACCEPTANCE IS EXPRESSLY LIMITED TO SUCH TERMS.  IF YOU DO NOT UNCONDITIONALLY AGREE TO ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO USE THE WEBSITE OR SERVICES.  USE OF COMPANY'S SERVICES IS EXPRESSLY CONDITIONED UPON YOUR ASSENT TO ALL THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, TO THE EXCLUSION OF ALL OTHER TERMS.

1\. ACCESS TO THE SERVICES. The hashicorp.com and vagrantup.com website and domain name and any other linked pages, features, content, or application services (including without limitation any mobile application services) offered from time to time by Company in connection therewith (collectively, the "Website") are owned and operated by Company.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Company may offer to provide certain services, as described more fully on the Website, and that have been selected by you (together with the Website, the "Services"), solely for your own use, and not for the use or benefit of any third party.  The term "Services" includes, without limitation, use of the Website, any service Company performs for you and the Content (as defined below) offered by Company on the Website.  Company may change, suspend or discontinue the Services at any time, including the availability of any feature, database, or Content.  Company may also impose limits on certain features and services or restrict your access to parts or all of the Services without notice or liability.  Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to modify this Agreement at any time by posting a notice on the Website, or by sending you a notice.  You shall be responsible for reviewing and becoming familiar with any such modifications.  Your use of the Services following such notification constitutes your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement as modified.

Company does not knowingly collect or solicit personal information from anyone under the age of 13 or knowingly allow such persons to register for the Services.  If you are under 13, please do not attempt to register for the Services or send any information about yourself to us, including your name, address, telephone number, or email address.  No one under age 13 may provide any personal information to Company or on the Services.  In the event that we learn that we have collected personal information from a child under age 13 without verification of parental consent, we will delete that information as quickly as possible.  If you believe that we might have any information from or about a child under 13, please contact us at support@hashicorp.com.

You represent and warrant to Company that: (i) you are an individual (i.e., not a corporation) and you are of legal age to form a binding contract or have your parent's permission to do so, and you are at least 13 years or age or older; (ii) all registration information you submit is accurate and truthful; and (iii) you will maintain the accuracy of such information.  You also certify that you are legally permitted to use and access the Services and take full responsibility for the selection and use of and access to the Services.  This Agreement is void where prohibited by law, and the right to access the Services is revoked in such jurisdictions.

2\. SERVICES CONTENT. The Services and its contents may only be used in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.  All materials displayed or performed on the Services (including, but not limited to text, graphics, articles, photographs, images, illustrations (also known as the "Content,")) are protected by copyright.  You shall abide by all copyright notices, trademark rules, information, and restrictions contained in any Content accessed through the Services, and shall not use, copy, reproduce, modify, translate, publish, broadcast, transmit, distribute, perform, upload, display, license, sell or otherwise exploit for any purposes whatsoever any Content or third party submissions or other proprietary rights not owned by you: (i) without the express prior written consent of the respective owners, and (ii) in any way that violates any third party right.
The Services are protected by copyright as a collective work and/or compilation, pursuant to U.S. copyright laws, international conventions, and other intellectual property laws.  You may not modify, publish, transmit, participate in the transfer or sale of, reproduce (except as expressly provided in this Section 2), create derivative works based on, distribute, perform, display, or in any way exploit, any of the Content, software, materials, or Services in whole or in part.

You may download or copy the Content (and other items displayed on the Services for download) for personal non-commercial use only, provided that you maintain all copyright and other notices contained in such Content.  You shall not store any significant portion of any Content in any form.  Copying or storing of any Content other than personal, noncommercial use is expressly prohibited without prior written permission from Company or from the copyright holder identified in such Content's copyright notice.  If you link to the Website, Company may revoke your right to so link at any time, at Company's sole discretion.  Company reserves the right to require prior written consent before linking to the Website.
Under no circumstances will Company be liable in any way for any Content, including, but not limited to, any errors or omissions in any Content, or any loss or damage of any kind incurred in connection with use of or exposure to any Content posted, emailed, accessed, transmitted, or otherwise made available via the Services.

3\. RESTRICTIONS. You warrant, represent and agree that you will not contribute any Content or otherwise use the Services in a manner that (i) infringes or violates the intellectual property rights or proprietary rights, rights of publicity or privacy, or other rights of any third party; (ii) violates any law, statute, ordinance or regulation; (iii) is harmful, fraudulent, deceptive, threatening, abusive, harassing, tortious, defamatory, vulgar, obscene, libelous, or otherwise objectionable; (iv) involves commercial activities and/or sales without Company's prior written consent such as contests, sweepstakes, barter, advertising, or pyramid schemes; (v) impersonates any person or entity, including without limitation any employee or representative of Company; or (vi) contains a virus, trojan horse, worm, time bomb, or other harmful computer code, file, or program.  Company reserves the right to remove any Content from the Services at any time, for any reason (including, but not limited to, upon receipt of claims or allegations from third parties or authorities relating to such Content or if Company is concerned that you may have breached the immediately preceding sentence), or for no reason at all.  You, not Company, remain solely responsible for all Content that you upload, post, email, transmit, or otherwise disseminate using, or in connection with, the Services, and you warrant that you possess all rights necessary to provide such content to Company and to grant Company the rights to use such information in connection with the Services and as otherwise provided herein.
You are responsible for all of your activity in connection with the Services.  Any fraudulent, abusive, or otherwise illegal activity may be grounds for termination of your right to access or use the Services.  You may not post or transmit, or cause to be posted or transmitted, any communication or solicitation designed or intended to obtain password, account, or private information from any other user of the Services.  Use of the Services to violate the security of any computer network, crack passwords or security encryption codes, transfer or store illegal material (including material that may be considered threatening or obscene), or engage in any kind of illegal activity is expressly prohibited.  You will not run Maillist, Listserv, any form of auto-responder, or "spam" on the Services, or any processes that run or are activated while you are not logged on to the Services, or that otherwise interfere with the proper working of or place an unreasonable load on the Services' infrastructure.  Further, the use of manual or automated software, devices, or other processes to "crawl," "scrape," or "spider" any portion of the Services is strictly prohibited.  You will not decompile, reverse engineer, or otherwise attempt to obtain the source code of the Services.  You will be responsible for withholding, filing, and reporting all taxes, duties and other governmental assessments associated with your activity in connection with the Services.

You understand and agree that Company shall have the sole right to decide whether you are in violation of any of the restrictions set forth in this Section, and shall have sole discretion regarding the course of action to take in connection therewith.

4\. WARRANTY DISCLAIMER. Company has no special relationship with or fiduciary duty to you.  You acknowledge that Company has no control over, and no duty to take any action regarding: which users gain access to the Services; what Content you access via the Services; what effects the Content may have on you; how you may interpret or use the Content; or what actions you may take as a result of having been exposed to the Content.  You release Company from all liability for you having acquired or not acquired Content through the Services.  The Services may contain, or direct you to websites containing, information that some people may find offensive or inappropriate.  Company makes no representations concerning any content contained in or accessed through the Services, and Company will not be responsible or liable for the accuracy, copyright compliance, legality or decency of material contained in or accessed through the Services.  Company makes no representations or warranties regarding the accuracy of descriptions anywhere on the Services, or regarding suggestions or recommendations of services or products offered or purchased through the Services.  Products and services purchased (whether or not following such recommendations and suggestions) are provided "AS IS" without any warranty of any kind from Company or others unless, with respect to others (only), otherwise made expressly and unambiguously in writing by a designated third party for a specific product or service.THE SERVICES, CONTENT, WEBSITE AND ANY SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR THAT USE OF THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

5\. PRIVACY POLICY. For information regarding Company's treatment of personally identifiable information, please review Company's current Privacy Policy, which is hereby incorporated by reference; your acceptance of this Agreement constitutes your acceptance and agreement to be bound by Company's Privacy Policy.

6\. REGISTRATION AND SECURITY. As a condition to using some aspects of the Services, you may be required to register with Company and select a password and user name ("Company User ID"). You shall provide Company with accurate, complete, and updated registration information.  Failure to do so shall constitute a breach of this Agreement, which may result in immediate termination of your account.  You may not (i) select or use as a Company User ID a name of another person with the intent to impersonate that person; or (ii) use as a Company User ID a name subject to any rights of a person other than you without appropriate authorization.  Company reserves the right to refuse registration of or cancel a Company User ID in its discretion.  You shall be responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your password.

7\. INDEMNITY.  You will indemnify and hold Company, its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, and employees harmless (including, without limitation, from all damages, liabilities, settlements, costs and attorneys' fees) from any claim or demand made by any third party due to or arising out of your access to the Services, use of the Services, your violation of this Agreement, or the infringement by you or any third party using your account of any intellectual property or other right of any person or entity.

8\. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  TO THE FULLEST EXTENT ALLOWED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL COMPANY OR ITS SUPPLIERS, OR THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, OR AGENTS BE LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO THE WEBSITE OR THE SERVICES OR THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT UNDER ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, TORT, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER LEGAL OR EQUITABLE THEORY (I) FOR ANY AMOUNT IN THE AGGREGATE IN EXCESS OF THE GREATER OF $100 OR THE FEES PAID BY YOU FOR THE SERVICES AND ANY PRODUCTS OR SERVICES PURCHASED THROUGH THE SERVICES DURING THE 12-MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE APPLICABLE CLAIM; (II) FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER; (III) FOR DATA LOSS OR COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; OR (IV) FOR ANY MATTER BEYOND COMPANY'S REASONABLE CONTROL.  SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

9\. FEES AND PAYMENT. Although some of our Services are currently free to users, Company reserves the right to require payment of fees for certain or all Services or products.  You shall pay all applicable fees, as described on the Website in connection with such Services or products selected by you.  Company reserves the right to change its price list and to institute new charges at any time, upon notice to you, which may be sent by email or posted on the Website.  Any fees paid hereunder are non-refundable.

10\. INTERACTION WITH THIRD PARTIES. The Services may contain links to third party websites or services ("Third Party Services") that are not owned or controlled by Company.  When you access Third Party Services, you do so at your own risk.  You hereby represent and warrant that you have read and agree to be bound by all applicable policies of any Third Party Services relating to your use of the Services and that you will act in accordance with those policies, in addition to your obligations under this Agreement.  Company has no control over, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, accuracy, privacy policies, or practices of or opinions expressed in any Third Party Services.  In addition, Company will not and cannot monitor, verify, censor or edit the content of any Third Party Service. By using the Services, you expressly relieve and hold harmless Company from any and all liability arising from your use of any Third Party Service.
Your interactions with organizations and/or individuals found on or through the Services, including payment and delivery of goods or services, and any other terms, conditions, warranties or representations associated with such dealings, are solely between you and such organizations and/or individuals.  You should make whatever investigation you feel necessary or appropriate before proceeding with any online or offline transaction with any of these third parties.  You agree that Company shall not be responsible or liable for any loss or damage of any sort incurred as the result of any such dealings.  If there is a dispute between participants on this site, or between users and any third party, you understand and agree that Company is under no obligation to become involved.  In the event that you have a dispute with one or more other users or third parties, you hereby release Company, its officers, employees, agents, and successors in rights from claims, demands, and damages (actual and consequential) of every kind or nature, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, disclosed or undisclosed, arising out of or in any way related to such disputes.  If you are a California resident, you shall and hereby do waive California Civil Code Section 1542, which says: "A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which, if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."

11\. TERMINATION. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect while you use the Services.  You may terminate your use of the Services at any time.  Company may terminate or suspend your access to the Services or your membership at any time, for any reason, and without warning, which may result in the forfeiture and destruction of all information associated with your membership.  Company may also terminate or suspend any and all Services and access to the Website immediately, without prior notice or liability, if you breach any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement.  Upon termination of your account, your right to use the Services, access the Website, and any Content will immediately cease.  All provisions of this Agreement which, by their nature, should survive termination, shall survive termination, including, without limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, and limitations of liability.

12\. MISCELLANEOUS.  The failure of either party to exercise, in any respect, any right provided for herein shall not be deemed a waiver of any further rights hereunder.  Company shall not be liable for any failure to perform its obligations hereunder where such failure results from any cause beyond Company's reasonable control, including, without limitation, mechanical, electronic or communications failure or degradation (including "line-noise" interference).  If any provision of this Agreement is found to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision shall be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable.  This Agreement is not assignable, transferable or sublicensable by you except with Company's prior written consent.  Company may transfer, assign or delegate this Agreement and its rights and obligations without consent.  Both parties agree that this Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of the mutual understanding of the parties and supersedes and cancels all previous written and oral agreements, communications and other understandings relating to the subject matter of this Agreement, and that all modifications must be in a writing signed by both parties, except as otherwise provided herein.  No agency, partnership, joint venture, or employment is created as a result of this Agreement and you do not have any authority of any kind to bind Company in any respect whatsoever.  Headings for each section have been included above for your convenience, but such headings do not have any legal meaning, and may not accurately reflect the content of the provisions they precede.  You and Company agree there are no third party beneficiaries intended under this Agreement.

13\. ARBITRATION; GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws provisions thereof. Any dispute arising from or relating to the subject matter of this Agreement shall be finally settled by arbitration in San Francisco County, California, using the English language in accordance with the Streamlined Arbitration Rules and Procedures of Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc. ("JAMS") then in effect, by one commercial arbitrator with substantial experience in resolving intellectual property and commercial contract disputes, who shall be selected from the appropriate list of JAMS arbitrators in accordance with the Streamlined Arbitration Rules and Procedures of JAMS. Judgment upon the award so rendered may be entered in a court having jurisdiction, or application may be made to such court for judicial acceptance of any award and an order of enforcement, as the case may be.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, each party shall have the right to institute an action in a court of proper jurisdiction for injunctive or other equitable relief pending a final decision by the arbitrator.  For all purposes of this Agreement, the parties consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the United States Federal Courts located in the Northern District of California.

14\. CONTACT. If you have any questions, complaints, or claims with respect to the Services, you may contact us at support@hashicorp.com.

Effective: March 1, 2013
</div>
