---
page_title: "Vagrant Push - Atlas Strategy"
sidebar_current: "push-atlas"
description: |-
  Atlas is HashiCorp's commercial offering to bring your Vagrant development
  environments to production. The Vagrant Push Atlas strategy pushes your
  application's code to HashiCorp's Atlas service.
---

# Vagrant Push

## Atlas Strategy

[Atlas][] is HashiCorp's commercial offering to bring your Vagrant development
environments to production. You can read more about HashiCorp's Atlas and all
its features on [the Atlas homepage][Atlas]. The Vagrant Push Atlas strategy
pushes your application's code to HashiCorp's Atlas service.

The Vagrant Push Atlas strategy supports the following configuration options:

- `app` - The name of the application in [HashiCorp's Atlas][Atlas]. If the
  application does not exist, it will be created with user confirmation.

- `exclude` - Add a file or file pattern to exclude from the upload, relative to
  the `dir`. This value may be specified multiple times and is additive.
  `exclude` take precedence over `include` values.

- `include` - Add a file or file pattern to include in the upload, relative to
  the `dir`. This value may be specified multiple times and is additive.

- `dir` - The base directory containing the files to upload. By default this is
  the same directory as the Vagrantfile, but you can specify this if you have
  a `src` folder or `bin` folder or some other folder you want to upload.

- `vcs` - If set to true, Vagrant will automatically use VCS data to determine
  the files to upload. Uncommitted changes will not be deployed.

Additionally, the following options are exposed for power users of the Vagrant
Atlas push strategy. Most users will not require these options:

- `address` - The address of the Atlas server to upload to. By default this will
  be the public Atlas server.

- `token` - The Atlas token to use. If the user has run `vagrant login`, this
  will the token generated by that command. If the environment variable
  `ATLAS_TOKEN` is set, the uploader will use this value. By default, this is
  nil.


### Usage

The Vagrant Push Atlas strategy is defined in the `Vagrantfile` using the
`atlas` key:

```ruby
config.push.define "atlas" do |push|
  push.app = "username/application"
end
```

And then push the application to Atlas:

```shell
$ vagrant push
```

[Atlas]: https://atlas.hashicorp.com/  "HashiCorp's Atlas Service"
